.TH "SPEC2ARCH.CONF" "5" "29 June 2008"
.SH "NAME" 
spec2arch.conf.conf \- Configuration file for \fBspec2arch\fR, which creates
ArchLinux PKGBUILD files from RPM spec files
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
This manual page documents the options that can be set in the spec2arch.conf
configuration file. For a description of what spec2arch does, see the
spec2arch(8) manpage.

.SH "SETTINGS" 
.PP 
The syntax of options is OPTION=value - Bash syntax, since it will be sourced
by the pkgmake executable, which is written in Bash script.

.PP
The following settings are available in spec2arch.conf: 

.IP "\fBSRC_BASEURL\fP" 10
Here you can define a base URL where the source is available for download.
The string from this setting will be put in front of the source file name
defined in the RPM .spec file.

.IP "\fBUSE_WARNING\fP" 10
Since the automatic creation of the PKGBUILD file may result in invalid
settings and thus need a review, spec2arch can add a warning hint to that
fact. You should only ommit it if you are really sure the created PKGBUILD
file will be 100% correct. Valid settings are: 0 (no warning) or 1 (default
- place a warning).

.IP "\fBOVERWRITE_TARGET\fP" 10
What shall be done if the target PKGBUILD file specified on the command line
does already exist - shall it be overwritten without a warning (1), or shall
spec2arch better exit with a warning (0 - default)?

.IP "\fBBUILD_REPLACE\fR / \fBBUILD_REPLACED\fR"
Replacements to be made in the build() section. The RPM .spec file has some
pre-defined variables and conditional scripting which we may need to replace.
Since the replace is done using "sed", all statements need to comply to regexp
(i.e. escape certain characters).

For the replace, we set up two arrays which need to correspond to each other:
BUILD_REPLACE holds the strings to be replaced, BUILD_REPLACED the replacement.

.IP "\fBDO_BUILD_REPLACE\fR"
Whether we should apply the changes defined by \fIBUILD_REPLACE\fR and
\fIBUILD_REPLACED\fR (1, default) or not (0).

.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
spec2arch(8)

.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
This manual page was written by Andreas Itzchak Rehberg (devel@izzysoft.de),
the author of the program. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or
modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
Version 2.

More information may be found on the authors website, http://www.izzysoft.de/
 
